# Day 1

so far, i've setup VSC, Git, Python through Anaconda and made my first matplotlib graph.

anaconda was surprisingly simple to setup, the only problem i encountered is that it doesn't support my usual shell (nu) so i had to switch back to zsh. that doesn't bother me, zsh is a great shell and honestly i don't even use all of the nice and nifty features of nu anyways.

im working on making my main loop update the plot (aka, take control of the render loop) so that i can run my fetch logic in between renders. im currently struggling to follow alot of the code in the examples because the python comunity seems to make extensive use of [side effects](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Side_effect_(computer_science)) without really thinking about how that affects code comprehention.

for illustration purposes, here is the main section of a [stack overflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11874767/how-do-i-plot-in-real-time-in-a-while-loop)

```py
if __name__== '__main__':
    app = QtGui.QApplication(sys.argv)
    QtGui.QApplication.setStyle(QtGui.QStyleFactory.create('Plastique'))
    myGUI = CustomMainWindow()
    sys.exit(app.exec_())
```

what is `CustomMainWindow()` doing? why is it's resulting value not used anywhere?
i assume i will get used to it but im not fan of this coding style.

even stranger, here's the answer that was marked as correct in the same question:

```py
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

plt.axis([0, 10, 0, 1])

for i in range(10):
    y = np.random.random()
    plt.scatter(i, y)
    plt.pause(0.05)

plt.show()
```

why is `plt.show()`, which to my understanding starts displaying the plots, after the loop? mystifying.

---

i've done a bit of searching around, and i think i can use a [`FuncAnimation`](https://matplotlib.org/stable/api/_as_gen/matplotlib.animation.FuncAnimation.html#matplotlib.animation.FuncAnimation) and simply pass `None` as the value of the `frames` kwarg to make an infinitely updating animation. i think i can run my http requests in the update callback of the `FuncAnimation`.

---

i now have an animated matrix!
