# Day 3

i think i figured it out. of all things, i think i simply needed to specify a minimum and a maximum value. i think what happened is that since everything was zeroes, it assumed that zero was both the max and min value.
im going to remove the casts to ints now, see if it changes anything. im also gonna reduce the vmax to 1. now i should get random values between 0 and 1 and they should all display different colors on the map.

---

i have it working for real now! the heatmap is functionning correctly!

---

on the one hand, i have parsed the gtfs data using `gtfs_kit` successfully and produced a nice helper function for it, on the other i have the `_resize_id` error again, but no `init_func` which seemed to be what caused it last time. you win some, you lose some, it seems.

---

looked higher up the stack trace and saw that i missed my real error. it is: `RuntimeError: The animation function must return a sequence of Artist objects.`

---

i added a command line arg to skip the validation because it takes a long time at runtime, and once we've done it we don't really need to do it again for the same dataset.

---

i found my error. i was missing a FUCKING `,` at line 31.
to be clear, im saying this

```py
def update(frame):
    new_matrix = np.random.rand(100, 100) 
    dynamic_hm.set_data(new_matrix)
    return dynamic_hm,
```

is the fixed version of

```py
def update(frame):
    new_matrix = np.random.rand(100, 100) 
    dynamic_hm.set_data(new_matrix)
    return dynamic_hm
```

because that tiny comma makes the return of update a single element iterable.
this feels like a missing semicolon except 10x worse because it's valid syntax without the comma and produces a type error instead.
granted, i found the problem pretty quick when i fealized i missed the actual error but it's still pretty frustrating.

---

time to see if i can produce a plot representing the shape data.

---

being able to explore the data in a repl is very convenient. that's something that probably couldnt be so easily done in rust.

---

grouping vs aggregating etc. is confusing. im trying to turn my dataframe into multiple groups, but i think groupby only rearranges a dataframe so that "grouped" elements follow each other...

---

i think i have properly transformed the shape data into a list of drawing instructions.

---

i rendered it and its a bit all over the place and not scalled properly and definetly not drawn *completely* correctly, but... its something!

---

i fixed the rendering issues! now my problem is that i havent figured out how im going to overlap the heatmap with the city map. so far so good though!

---

i realized that `.imshow()` was not gonna cut it for the heatmap after all because i need it to be rendered along the weird range in between montreal's latitude and longitude, so that part of the research ended up being useless. (but i learned a lot about animating!)
I found from a [stackoverflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/33282368/plotting-a-2d-heatmap) that i can use something called a [`pcolor mesh`](https://matplotlib.org/stable/gallery/images_contours_and_fields/pcolor_demo.html#sphx-glr-gallery-images-contours-and-fields-pcolor-demo-py). im gonna look into it tomorrow or maybe sometime tonight. for now, im happy with my progress.
