# Day 4

i think i forgot to link it yesterday, but i found this cool [example](https://matplotlib.org/stable/gallery/showcase/firefox.html#sphx-glr-gallery-showcase-firefox-py) of the old firefox logo made with `PatchPath`.

---

seems i need to download the protobuf compiler to produce some sort of library for my python code, which will allow me to read the data i receive from the stm endpoint.

---

that was easy enough. simply needed to

- install the `protobuf-compiler` system package, which gives us access to the `protoc` command.
- use said command to compile the protobuf definitions found on day 2 like so: `protoc --python_out=. <filename>.proto`
- copy the resulting file in the project
- install the `protobuf` package with pip

---

when i try to parse the data i get from the live api, i get `google.protobuf.message.DecodeError: Error parsing message` with no further information. fun. useful. joy.

---

i made it work! although, im not sure how to interpret the data yet. im guessing theres more to this becaus all i see in the console is

```none
trip {
  trip_id: "2.0"
}
position {
}
```

---

i have the coordonates of the buses now!! all i have left to do is compile those in a heatmap!
i think what im gonna do is cache the last 100 or so samples (about the last 15 minutes) so the heatmap is interesting to look at. otherwise, i dont think *only* the current positions of the buses is gonna properly represent how busy the roads are.

---

i just realized that i lazed around too much today and completely forgot to do my philo teacher's very vague assignment. on the one hand, i know i have to get this done, on the other, im so close to having the prototype ready, i just want to spend a bit of my night finishing it.

---

figuring out how exactly to use the data i parsed from the protobuf was a bit cumbersome. first, i had to know what i was parsing. initially, i parsed to a `VehiclePosition` directly because i expected the the contents to simply be an array of position objects. turns out, this API returns a LOT more information like vehicle speed, if it's stopped or not, etc. in the end, i found out i was supposed to parse to a top-level "message" as they call it in protobuf called `FeedMessage`, which has a field called `.entity` (that is unintuitively a sequence of entities, not a single one). from there, we can map to `entity.vehicle.position`, and the turn position's longitude and latitude fields into a tuple and *voila* we have the coordinates.
side note: protobufs are pretty fucking cool. i hope for one of my future projects i get an excuse to learn to make them instead of just consuming them.
