# Day 6

i know that python uses a try-catch exception style of error handling but i've been redpilled by Rust's way of handling errors so im gonna look for a result type i can use in the package index, otherwise i'm probably going to make it myself :)
so far, this seems the most promissing: `https://pypi.org/project/result/`.
i also learned from this package that python now has an elegant match statement like in rust! nice!

---

now, i'm to the point where i have to save what i'm reading to the DB. i found a [stackoverflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/18621513/python-insert-numpy-array-into-sqlite3-database) that says we can save entire numpy arrays in sqlite, which is pretty cool and make this whole saving buisness extremely easy.

---

i had to find a way to fetch the records one by one through a generator instead of a list in case the dataset is too big to fit in memory. turns out, its simpler than i thought it would be:

```py
cursor = db.execute("SELECT customer FROM table")
for row in cursor:
            print row[0]
# instead of
cursor = db.execute("SELECT customer FROM table")
for row in cursor.fetchall(): # this one returns a list instead of a generator
            print row[0]

```

[source](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/21334767/is-sqlite3-fetchall-necessary)

i don't know if i said why i wanted a generator, but it's because in python, generators are lazy. so, instead of fetching all data and transforming it in place, the generator will get entries as they are needed and i can even map over them lazily by wrapping the generator in another generator, through a _list comprehention_.

---

i made it so you can pass a flag to make it reset the database. the flag is `--reset_db`. this makes me thing i should add a `README.md` eventually.

---

im having a bit of trouble figuring out how to insert in the db without having to supply all the fields (they should be automatically handled)

---

minutes after writing the last entry, i think i remember how to fix my issue.
i think if i want to take advantage of sql automatically handling the columns that can be, i need to specify explicitly the fields that are not.

---

i was right, but when exploring the db in a repl, im not seeing any data saved. concerning.

---

im an idiot. i read the sqlite [documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/sqlite3.html) and turns out i just forgot to commit the transaction by calling `self.conn.commit()` after my insertion. classic case of RTFM.

---

all i have left to do is compile and save the animation on close and tweak the update formula.
importantly, Dave specified he wanted to see how many busses passed in a given area (square) of our heatmaps in the last 15 minutes, for example. i'll probably parameterize that. i should just be able to have an argv and test if it starts with, for example, `"--time_window_length="`, and the rest of that string would be the number of seconds on that window. for example, `"--time_window_length=300"` would run for 300 seconds, so 5 minutes. to keep that info alive, i just plan to keep a queue that will containt exactly `tw/u` items where `tw` is the length of the time window and u is the time between updates, which will probably be hardcoded at 10 seconds. so, for 5 minutes, it would cache 30 updates, for example.

---

KDE ESTIMATOR!!! i should consider switching my rendering strategy to use this instead.
