# Day 11

turns out `mypy` is more of a chore since its so badly supported. everything matplotlib is missing their type stubs. so now my code is filled with `# type: ignore` at the end of lines with incomplete `mypy` metadata.
i commend the mypy project but at this point might as well rewrite everything in a more typesafe language.

---

pretty much everything has been cleaned up with the exception of the update function. probably gonna make a curried factory for it.

---

cleaned up some of the update function. maybe i can just keep it clean enough to avoid making a factory or object for it.
i also cleaned up the main function in general

---

seems the reason why my algorithm wasn't working was because numpy didnt like my `map()`s, so i changed it for a list comprehension. im not fully sure why that was such a big deal because of python's usual obscure typings.

---

added this neat library called [typer](https://typer.tiangolo.com/) to enhance the cli-ness of the app. i discovered it while making research on [fastapi](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) for the CARL lab. could be useful to make scriptlets in the future.

---

updating the way data gets serialised so i can save the new format in the db. im following this stack overflow answer to do so: <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5260095/saving-tuples-as-blob-data-types-in-sqlite3-in-python>
pickle seems pretty convenient as far as serializing and deserializing goes

---

im getting an error where "list" is not supported. i think im just going to use pickle blobs and forget the whole adapter thing. i think i'm overcomplicating myself with it.

---

it works! it properly saves the data and retrieves it from sqlite. i hacked together another `FuncAnimation` this time by passing a generator of the data as the `frames` argument. i made it a generator to make sure the data was lazily fetched.
it also saves as a gif expectedly, which im happy about.
